Yeah, we do get long,
but it's quite those.
It's just a shooting speaking for you.
The use the phone.
I.
Mhm.
So, Kicker.
Hast du den?
So we're good person.
Bitte explodieren.
OK, let's see if it is recording.
Try instruct.
Is it OK to plug it into your mind sheet?
Ketchup pictures.
It's OK. Change language to English.
To go.
Starting.
Yeah.
All right.
Yep, all right.
Now I'm just talking for a couple of
hours. By myself. Great.
So, yeah, like I said,
this is the workshop we're going to be
having to for the go live of new dispo as
an actual go live of 1 branch,
just to let you know everyone,
it is not decided.
yet which branch it will be.
It's either 1034,
the one we are working with the whole
time, or another one, the 1060,
because of other reasons, new database.
But basically, all the preparations,
the decision is not made yet,
and the preparations for this database
will then be a new task to update it to
the state we need it,
but this should be the least of the
problem, I hope at least.
Always be free to ask questions.
If you have any, let me know.
I sum up the target again.
I want everyone to know what is the goal
of this go live,
what is included and what we need to do,
that we are confident at the end of the
workshop that this is achievable.
at all,
and we have an idea how we can achieve
this. At the end,
we should have a user story.
All user stories have a rough estimate,
and basically we have an idea of what
we're heading with.
So we can basically increase the size of
the team and adjust and basically have
another QA, have more back end,
have more front end.
or even less if we think, all right,
this is just, this is what we need,
this is the setup we need. Switch.
Not sure, did you just buy it on Amazon?
Yes, and then you want it straight away,
instant delivery,
and so that probably could work,
but not sure how.
Yeah, same.
T.
But maybe we can stay outside,
not to disturb you guys,
but when we find out.
Bring it, it should be.
I mean,
I think right now is the best time to to
set it up, because, uh, yep.
So I'm just going to be giving you a
little bit more background right now,
or not background, but structure.
We would like to go through all the
features and the user stories one by one,
set some time limit.
that we can actually make the way through
all of them today,
not dive too deep into details,
not like the goal is not to have refined
items we can work on,
but just this overall mindset that we can
produce a roadmap,
that we have something we can work with
and basically.
have an idea if this is achievable or not.
What?
Anyways,
we plan some little breaks after the
features or user stories as we as we see
fit,
because it's a small room and if the air
is used, the energy level decreases,
so I know what's up, so basically we.
Gonna be having like little 5 minutes or
10 minutes.
breaks in between and as well lunch and
after all we plan to be done by 5, 530ish,
something around this.
So and if we're not done we can see how
we're going to manage because.
Last time I think we stayed until 7
o'clock and it was just raining.
And I'd rather have like an overall
picture of everything,
not down into detail and we continue
through the next weeks to refine the
items one by one,
then just have halfway and we're all done.
just that at the end of the day. Yeah,
as I said,
We want the end to be able to derive the
team setup from our estimates that we can
know where we need support or we can
manage this. We want to find risks,
potential blockers,
and assumptions for implementations.
So basically,
if you already have something in mind,
which is just right,
If we're going to be doing this and I
cannot answer this straight up and give
you a concrete answer, please raise, hey,
okay,
then this is our assumption and we're
going to be working with these
assumptions because this is what we're
going to be communicating.
Under this assumption,
we can manage to do this or not.
potential blockers, something, risks,
we have to raise and be like, hey,
if you cannot deliver this input,
then the timeline will be increased by a
sprint or whatever.
And yeah,
this is the general target of this
workshop. And specifically,
out of scope is tonight to commit to a
timeline.
This is not what we want to be doing
right now.
We just want to collect how much work
this is and how we're going to be doing
this.
Any questions until now?
Nope.
Sweet,
and please always feel free to ask
questions.
All right, then.
Let's dive directly into the topics.
Got some delay. Nice. Yeah,
so we got the features up top.
Basically, general resilience,
then the data input I scared all of you
yesterday with.
Then, uh...
OK, the delay is crazy.
I feel like... Shall I do something? Yeah,
so basically that's it. The data input,
the T shipments,
then generally providing updates to the
planning page,
basically this indicator thing.
Then the TMS Pulse Aura extension,
this is basically the topic.
topic Matthias is taking care of. General,
it's a rough estimate, not rough estimate,
the feature on investigation on the route
calculation.
These include some investigation and also
some user stories basically to make it
possible somehow.
Then the tool number go live scope,
which is just one user story.
Then the customer communication enabling
sending mails. It's 2 user stories.
UI improvements,
what lies underneath this.
It's just reshaping of the page and just
reducing white space,
which could be used for actual planning
purposes.
I think Martin will be introducing this
topic to the front end and maybe even QA.
This would be not too bad. Next Monday,
so this will be not part of,
but we're going to be talking over what
we have in mind and what could be
generally put as a buffer.
from front end QA side,
then the adjustments to the back end or
the views for some, yeah,
some filtering of shipments and some
functionalities like EDI,
whether it is available or not. And.
Last but not least,
the Aura database testing.
And this is a general testing whether the
Aura database works as expected or not.
So because we have not worked with it and
how much effort we plan just from QA side
to see if this is working or not.
And it's not migrating anything,
it's not doing anything on the database,
it's just testing whether our app works
with this database. All right,
since we got some limited time,
I would love to go on.
to keep some some timekeeping for all of
these items. Generally speaking, I, yep,
oh wow. Generally speaking,
I would put half an hour per feature.
Time box, yeah. Time box.
So because after half an hour,
we should be at least 80% done with this.
And if we need two more minutes,
five more minutes, all right,
but basically to not lose track. Yeah.
Maybe the tea shipment needs a little bit
more love because it is kind of intricate
and complex.
But the rest of them is most likely be
less than half an hour.
Okay, that's 10 items, right?
Five hours, 5 hours, and 5 1/2,
so there could be some time left for,
I would say,
breakout sessions for topics that we
didn't manage to handle in the time box.
Yeah, good.
All right,
and basically this would be the preferred
order as I would approach these features.
Anyone wants to say, hey,
let's discuss this earlier because I
think it's worth to discuss this and
since we're still fresh,
I have an open mind right now and I'm not
drained.
Looking how the features are like.
position,
it seems to me that the first one has
more priority,
at least they look more complex.
And given the time box we were talking,
I'm just not sure if it makes sense to
start with them,
because we might end up not having the
enough time and then just we go to the
easier ones and then we have to go back.
If you have some time left,
so I'm not sure.
Just, yeah, you know what you mean,
but also thinking about these things
early is also important, right?
To let the stink,
otherwise we might start spending too
much time on the easier ones as well.
That's in the I, I don't think so. Like,
for real, everything passed.
This one, so yeah,
those on the right side are either.
Everything on the right side from here is
either already refined and in progress
and basically we just have some some
things basically putting an estimation on
it.
We're just going to roughly explain it
will take 10 minutes to just give an idea
of what we have in mind.
And the others should be time boxed as
well and not half an hour.
So I think it's good if we start early
with the other ones.
And so we are through.
with the complex stuff in the beginning
and then can ease out at the end.
Yeah.
Let's try it. I mean,
we should put an active timer up there,
I think, which reads.
Otherwise, we're doomed. We are doomed.
All right. I would hand over to Matthias.
Will you share or should I?
You can share if you want.
Think it's gonna be.
Better.
This looks very from Stone.
All right, Jay.
Good, so is it running the timer? Yep.
The resilience,
it's been a long-standing topic.
We started discussing this last year
already in certain areas.
We know we have gaps there.
It was just under pressure last year,
not possible to handle all of the
non-functional requirements.
Focus heavily on functional requirements,
specifically to make new disco work at
all with TMS right on the functional
level we have reached right now,
which is great progress and which is
honoured by the client.
But really facing a go live date,
we need to tackle this now.
This has also been made transparent to
the client. This is very important.
They know that.
They know that it's important.
And they also know that we have put a
high priority on that.
So now is the time really to get started
on these topics.
And what is really important for me is
that we bring in all the knowledge we've
collected over 1 1/2 years regarding gaps,
weaknesses,
spots that are probably still blind.
and bring them up now,
because we only have this chance once to
really make the holistic solution work.
We cannot come in half a year and say, oh,
there's another spot that we knew already
a year ago. This is not possible.
We have to do it now.
But I think we have it covered.
In a good, we have it in a good shape,
covered, so let's go through it.
It's.
Four topics in general that we put under
this resilience umbrella.
The first one is the transactional
behaviour that we've been discussing last
week and the preparation of Gavrilović,
by the way.
You see why not coming?
On the part of.
You don't know that.
Actually said he will be joining.
Mm.
Can you quickly write in? I can write in.
Good,
because it picks up where we stopped last
week.
with the concept he presented.
Regarding making transactional behaviour
actually work,
we have three scenarios that...
Can fail.
We called the first one earlier failure,
where we already have a failure with the
bridge, for example.
So we don't even touch the TMS database,
and we know early that no communication
has happened.
That's kind of the easy case,
because then you can just...
restart things, for example.
There's nothing out of sync between the
two systems.
The second one is when we actually hit
the TMS side already.
So data is changed on our request on the
TMS side.
But once we get the information back,
we have an outage, for example,
on our database.
and we cannot store the relevant change
on our side.
That means from that moment on,
the systems are out of sync.
The third one.
is literally similar,
but the failure is earlier.
So imagine the team as bridge is able to
send the change or the command or the
procedure request to the team as database,
it executes, changes data there,
but after that,
we don't get back the feedback from.
the TMS bridge,
which also results in the same state.
We cannot keep the data in sync.
So now the TMS database has a different
state than we have it on our side,
for example,
on the Leicht assignment process or
transport order creation.
So these are the scenarios that we've
discussed last week.
The approach Gavrilović has presented is..
.
I can make this a little bigger with the
sharing mode.
It's a bit small.
Ivo has presented the outbox pattern,
which would resolve all three error
scenarios.
However,
we've asked the question last week
already if this is feasible in terms of
complexity, amount of work,
architectptestbitflowerdigital
preparation to be done in the time range
of literally two months.
The answer was in concerns that it's not
possible. So
I've,
or we have presented this to Patrick and
proposed to do it in a simpler way.
This is also what we discussed,
which involves a manual step for the user.
So it's not that comfortable, let's say,
in the sense that the system has an auto
cure, auto healing mode.
and tries to resolve data synchronicity
issues in the background,
but it would rather just tell the user,
hey,
something failed here between the systems,
you have to retry.
That's what we told Patrick,
which could be feasible,
and that we will take this to our
workshop today and discuss it.
So this is a new option we haven't had on
the table last week.
Besides the third one,
which we also discussed,
I think you brought it up with going back
to the drawing board and rethinking the
whole new Disco TMS. Yeah,
synchronisation method in total.
and go completely different ways about it.
Maybe with a more event-driven
architecture,
but we also found that this is even more
complex and this more fundamental work,
which we cannot do right now.
So 3 is completely off scope. Also,
The second one is off scope, it's too big.
So what now is left is what we have to
work on this manual recovery mechanism
and what it means to actually make it
work,
like to identify when it is possible to
just rerun, for example.
a sequence with TMS without creating
duplicates on TMS side, for example,
and how to recover an asynchronous state
between the systems.
And that is work we have to do anyway.
This would have been work we need to do
for the outbox pattern.
as well.
So that's kind of the good part of this
solution that it creates some
prerequisites and requirements that we
need later anyway,
if we want to build the outbox pattern.
But still,
we can make it smaller now because we
shift all the manual,
the resolving to the user in a manual way.
and not do it in an automated way in the
background process.
What else was also discussed already is
the item potency topic,
which is literally this possibility to
just rerun sequences of calls and
functions and procedures.
This is something we need to
Cheque with the team guys,
so it's a pending topic,
and part of this story,
because that's the basis for being able
to even do this manual resolvement
process. Hello, hi, and Matthias,
lovely person, lovely.
Oh.
So...
And.
We just really started with the...
Resilience topics, okay.
I'm right on time. I'm right on time.
You just missed the intro to literally
the outbox pattern topic. Okay.
I just wrapped up again where we stand
that we've de-scoped last week together
the outbox pattern voter June timeline.
because it's really big, right?
And that we've also talked to Patrick
already about this to get the business
stakeholders involved.
And that we've proposed a manual recovery
process for now.
which of course also involves creating
the fundamental foundation to be able to
resolve synchronicity issues at all,
involving item potency topics and all
these things that we discussed.
And the question today is,
because we chose to
an intro like phase of the workshop right
now.
We want to go through all topics that we
have.
It's 10 of them in a time box manner.
So we have 30 minutes per topic.
What we want to achieve is raise the
awareness for what is coming and what it
means roughly to build such a solution.
In this case, the manual recovery feature.
Um...
Yeah.
So...
The question is...
How to go from here?
Do we have a feeling about what it means
to build such a manual step,
what the next steps are with Joachim,
for example, with the team as database,
what the next steps are on our side?
That's the work we need to do.
There are no stories yet.
That was just this goal.
Can you go down to the option one?
Because basically we're just going to be
talking about option one, right? Correct.
So first let's start,
what do we mean by manual recovery by the
user? Because as I look at it,
the user can't have an idea what
operation has been executed to lead this
synchronisation between the databases.
They simply cannot know about this.
I mean, if I see, for example, indicator,
they can't know what exactly caused this
synchronization. For me,
personally speaking, for this,
this is more like a support topic,
not user manually trying to recover this.
Because, like,
how the user would know what operation
caused this, what if, how do...
Would we know what to retrieve if we
don't have some sort of outbox?
We replace probably the idea that the
whole operation is right.
This in the potency means that to
whatever, like this operation,
it could have many steps,
and the idea is that we can retry all
these steps safely.
This is the what is in the potency,
and then, for example,
let's say the user is on the UI,
he tries to assign a leg.
You just see that it fails,
and it just tries the same operation with
the assigning the like again.
Okay, but can we achieve this from TMS?
So, there's the independence part.
That's the part that's not completely
refined. Basically,
the idea would be to rather cheque first
what the underlying state is and only
then start triggering any compensation,
let's say, updates that would.
Finalize, let's say,
the change initiated by the user,
and we are talking here only about
transcenders. Of course, yeah,
there is something permanent wrong with
the data, some data quality, obviously,
that cannot be fixed on one of the
systems only.
One may need to look at carefully at the
data, maybe.
go to the error system,
resolve some quality issues on the data,
and only then finalise the operation.
But when we have that user end user
context,
it's probably the easiest one to achieve
in terms of fixing synchronisation issues
to rather provide this ability for end
user to repeat an operation and then
Finally succeed, if if it's possible,
of course,
to succeed if this was caused by
transient issues. Yeah,
and like this in the potency,
like usually there are two ways to
achieve it. First is the API supports it,
like for example,
the TMS procedure or function that we are
going to call internally manage this,
so when we try it doesn't.
let's say recreate record or just do
anything wrong.
That's the one of the options which I
think it's less feasible because we know
how DMS changes like are going. Yeah,
the other the other way is just us
checking, for example,
is is this record was already created and
if it's yes, we just don't do it.
Otherwise, we do,
but what my concern is with this approach
really is that, like,
we cannot cover outages because, like,
we can only cover with this approach only
short transient errors,
meaning that let's say there's 1/2 an
hour outage or even 5 minutes like the
user.
will not be spanning the same operation 5
minutes or half an hour,
he probably goes to another page and just
develops the action and then this
synchronisation just stays there.
Like that's my main concern about this.
And if we are talking about just covering
short transient errors,
which are like within a minute or
something like that.
I think that it could be easily
implemented in auto mode.
So that's my personal gap about this here.
Yeah,
I think what it definitely needs is
storing some kind of state, what failed,
which ID.
That's something you can come back to
even after an hour.
because the user has to stop trying when
it's a long outage of an hour.
He will also see it, right?
He tries it three times, it fails,
he will go fetch a coffee maybe.
So we have to persist that so that he can
try the next day, for example.
But then we go.
more and more towards the outbox pattern.
I mean, even if we just see it,
then we need to show it somehow to the
user. In my opinion,
those two options exist. Like other,
we first attempt, let's say,
write the data somewhere else and
probably not indicate any how about this
operation has been attempted or.
The opposite one would be we put some
data locally and then it's obvious for
the user that this has not been finalised
and the user would need to retry it.
Maybe we provide this ability for the
user to resubmit that, etc.
Main order.
This could, I think, this could easily go.
Very messed up,
because let's just take about the example
of the outage of some of the service.
This means that, probably, let's say that,
you know, this database,
this means that in practice.
All of the operations on the applications
will start failing. Not just this one.
This means that what happens? User,
like there's the outfit user tries to
sign in like it fails, then tries again,
it fails, then tries some other operation,
it fails,
then tries some other operation and it
fails and he says,
I cannot use this application anymore.
Then we get this back worker failed
actions.
Then the when the user like just goes
again after half an hour and everything
is ready,
he gave this a lot of big list of what
failed, and I'm not sure. Well,
that goes also with some deduplication,
right? I mean, in theory,
not like these attempts,
they shouldn't be separate.
let's say records that are pending to be
synchronised manually could be duplicated
based on the submitted information.
Yeah,
I think that's exactly the middle ground
between a full-blown automatic resolving
mechanism and manual.
It's not that manual is completely easy.
That's not what I'm saying.
We just try to reduce this as much as
possible to create the shortest timeline
possible.
But the fact is we need something like
that. In the best case,
we don't build stuff for the manual
feature that is not needed later.
But in my opinion,
most of the things are needed.
But we have to build this anyway.
That's a fact.
So, and still,
it's much better than outbox pattern
considering the timelines. I mean,
the outbox pattern will take probably
months to be stabilised and tested
carefully. Yeah.
I think we can only go forward here with
more refinements.
Because we need a deep understanding in
the team in everybody's head so that we
have a high confidence.
And this is only for the transactional
behavior.
This is only transactional behavior.
And we probably also blow up the time box.
Yeah,
that's what I meant in the beginning.
But probably it's also enough depth for
this intro.
Is everybody now aware of what the
challenge is?
That's the most important thing.
Can we probably summarize, like,
what's the idea, like,
because we discussed a couple of
suggestions,
what is the in summary the idea that we
are trying to achieve? Let's do some,
yeah,
so you click as a user a button that
initiates an action that creates process
that needs.
data changes on both systems.
It fails due to some network-based issue,
one of the three error scenarios,
and you have data change in TMS,
but didn't get back the change in your
dispo. Now the systems are out of sync.
For example, a leg assignment.
work on TMS side,
but we didn't store the TMS lag ID. Okay,
and we want to retry this. I mean,
we want to. And that means, first of all,
this is bad. We need to resolve this,
but it's currently not possible because
maybe the network is still not there,
as Joseph said.
Now we need to retry this with the
full-blown outbox pattern. This would.
Be tried in the background without user
involvement with a retry mechanism, yeah,
probably resolving A transient error,
not resolving a data error. Obviously,
that's two different distinctions, so...
He gets an error with the option to retry.
Maybe in the error message,
there's this button, retry. He clicks it.
It runs through a new sequence where we...
try to see if we need to cheque data on
TMS side first.
So we do some selects and read data.
And based on that information,
we trigger a retry manually in that
sequence. Or it's idempotent,
so we don't have to care if it's changed
on TMS side. We just can rerun it.
as if it never happened. Okay.
That's the idea.
Do we lock what failed attempts are as
well as part of this?
I think that's part of the discussion we
need to have in the refinements.
What do we need to lock? Okay.
I think we have to lock something.
Because you might need.
I don't know, I don't know,
at least the ID.
And that there was an error,
because if we need to cheque data first
in TMS before retrying, then you...
Need some kind of state for that,
because otherwise you wouldn't know that
ID XYZ had an issue before,
and you cannot just rerun it if it's not
idempotent.
I think we need to discuss this more
because really I think right now I feel
very far from confident about this.
Because again, like storing state, okay,
like something failed,
we store the state that something failed
for the user.
But first we mentioned storing it locally
for the user,
which is not going to work because when
some other user goes on.
the planning page for this record,
he also needs to show,
he also needs to know that something
failed with this record.
And now imagine the same situation,
but in broader scope.
We have the outage of our databases,
there are like 20 users using the
application at this time.
and they start failing with different
operations,
which needs to be visible for everyone.
What happens like...
What are the messages that you need to
show? Like,
that 10 operations failed for 10
different records and 10 different
actions? I just can't imagine it to this.
It's part of what we need to put into the
assumption list.
I think that's where Max's point is
important.
We cannot build.
a solution that covers all cases.
That's impossible and probably not
requested.
What we have to do in the such case is
that we set up assumptions and point out
edge cases and gaps that we do not cover.
and that will be delivered later after
June.
The thing is just we need to get started
with something.
So if the first solution just covers the
retry mechanism for one user in isolation,
not caring about what other users see,
then that's the assumption.
and the limitation at the same point.
But we have to get started. OK,
but like the try mechanism. OK,
this is fine. I mean,
this is probably something we can achieve.
If we lock those unsuccessful attempts
for, like, for example,
ID when it was updated, type of operation,
probably some context as well, like,
can we handle this as like a support
topic, because, for example,
if the user tried, if they fail,
we have a lock, we have for this entity,
for this type of entity with this ID.
We have inconsistency and we have it
locked,
we have a lock of all of the operations
with the time when operation was executed,
probably with some context as well.
Isn't this like for,
at least for June or whatever date we're
coming to,
isn't it like a reasonable topic just to
have a support checking where there are
like failed operations for like some
period of time and manually going and
checking what update should be provided
to our internal database because that
would be the topic coming.
We always execute the GMS operation 1st
and then we try to reflect this change
into our database.
Isn't it like a feasible approach if we
decide to go just with the just with the
retry and also logging,
just logging of like, yeah,
let's say multiple unsuccessful retries,
we can define exactly when we log such
thing,
but just to cheque that like to have.
That table would be like the, I would say,
the start of an implementation of an
outbox pattern,
because we need to store this information
anyway somewhere.
We won't have rich tries,
we would probably have a support assigned
just to cheque daily if this,
if we have errors there,
logs in this table.
And if we, if we have flux,
then it's up to the support to go and
cheque what failed,
whether the data is too inconsistent,
and probably manually adjusted,
but it's needed,
but this manual process of fixing this,
like this would be kind of eventual
consistency again, because, like,
let's say, yeah.
There's 1/2 an hour outage,
multiple things start failing.
There's this backlog of things that needs
to be resolved,
and then then some at some point,
for example, the outage is gone,
and the time that the the the one who's
resolving the issues will take is would
be.
Measurable, and at this point,
at this point,
the users will start seeing this
synchronised errors,
meaning that we again,
we need to show somehow and notify the
user that he's not working with this sync
state. We can think of this here, I mean,
showing is probably better than just
having like,
because if we showing is very complex,
where's the point?
Because there could be multiple
operations.
Be able, so I think this is sorry, Sonja,
so scroll on the on the picture of the
schema, uh huh,
so what do you need to see this?
It's one scenario.
It's just one.
Just as a for time management,
we have like 4 minutes left from the half
an hour. Yes.
I'm not seeing that we're gonna be even
touching the other three.
But can I say one? Of course you can.
The question is if we need more time for
this.
We need time, um.
Basically to sum up,
like in between sum up,
we're not going to be focusing on two or
three. This is clear.
This is clear as a day.
Now we just want to have an idea what
solution we can provide with option one,
because a simple retry and understanding.
Is not.
Just sufficient,
it's sufficient and just helping because
there's too many edge cases,
too many other events which we cannot
simply retry, right? I mean,
it's not sufficient because we need to
have like here in this Matthias mentioned,
like we won't have another chance to take
out this probably in the near future,
so I mean we should take this.
Good as we can for the time here, yeah,
too,
so so this is not this is not 100%
correct.
Because my opinion would be,
after we have this go live,
this would be a high priority to
implement either option 2 or option three.
But have a goal with the with this retry
mechanism which we have. Yeah,
but just with the retry,
we can't be confident that we'll be able
to handle like all of the situations
which. That's what I meant. Yeah,
but if the data goes out of sync,
then it's like.
Really hard for us to tell what went out
of sync and and and how to approach
fixing it because if we like don't have
this local or something which indicates
what went wrong,
we can't know what went wrong.
That's the basis for all all future steps.
It doesn't matter if manual or support
based or automated.
basically an indicator which is telling
us what went wrong. Correct.
Building just this state lock. State lock,
what happened? What is the issue here?
Yeah. And to keep in the time box,
let me put one more thing into the
discussion,
which is going into the direction of
Boyan comment.
In parallel,
besides our development streams here,
there's an organisational process set up
for support. A team,
24-7 team around the globe in levels L1,
L2, L3, L1 is on Nahide side,
we don't care about that.
But P3 will provide level 2 and three
support layers.
So we definitely have this option to put
it into support first.
Then we have to build less.
And the outcome is that a user in such an
error scenario has to wait longer,
because maybe the support will only
resolve it the next day or something like
that.
It's all good input and I think we should
have these options because at some stage
we have to commit to a timeline and then
it's good to have the smallest option
possible that we can pull.
to make the timeline happen.
So that's just what I wanted to.
Matt.
I have one question. Sure.
This the meetings for database,
is that the database on our side? Yes,
it's in GCP, the application database.
Yeah.
So it's not the one you are working.
I think you're not working on that
database yet, right? I don't think so.
Okay.
So, probably finalise Joseph,
do you think like it's a feasible idea,
probably just to mark those entities
which are...
Out of sync, and just in a way,
because we can know, I mean,
from we know we have different type of
entities.
If we see a log for this type of entity
in this, I'll call it outbox table,
because it's essentially in the future,
this is what it will be. Yeah,
that was outbox table.
And we say, okay,
we have a record for this there.
This is probably out of sync.
Just wait for this record to be cleared
before you actually do something with it.
I think we can mark it,
but I don't think that it's that
straightforward just marking the entity
because operation,
like one operation is affecting multiple
other operations.
I can give an example straight away.
Let's say that we try to...
Oh, assign a leg or something like that.
Like this operation,
maybe not the best example,
but this operation might be affecting the
leg itself and some other end.
Affect by by the operation that fail,
because because one operation could be
affecting multiple different entities.
Yes, yeah, it's correct. I mean,
I think we should store,
if it's a chain of serial events,
you need to store the point where it
fails. So you know,
after resolving that failure point,
you can continue with the sequence just
as planned. Something like that.
See to examine our.
Our workforce, I mean, we have, I think,
three or four workforce where the new
database and the TMS database is updated
as part of an atomic operation.
I think we need to outline this and go
through each of these operations and see
what are the possible complications.
Maybe it's very straightforward.
For all of them, maybe for some,
it's a bit less straightforward,
and we need to think address it on more
granular level.
So, start the next steps, for sure.
I mean,
we should probably identify those and go
through them. So,
maybe to even add one more point before
we wrap up, next week is a special week,
because Max will be off, correct?
That's not the hard statement.
It means we need to treat the next week
differently.
And we thought about making next week
full focus week for the resilience topics.
Just also meaning not to talk about other
features, to have the real focus for that,
that would hopefully give us back the
confidence.
First of all,
that we find a solution and 2nd,
to define the minimal solution we will
deliver. And then 3rd,
to report that to the client and have it
signed up.
That's just something that came to my
mind. So,
to give more context to why I'm off,
are we gonna be are gonna be on a fair
and basically representing P3 and
basically doing some stuff that I will be
available for questions if you have any
questions for implementation.
A quick call will always be possible,
but I will not be here most likely
working on the user stories and just like
refining with part spec.
This is just always all going to be on
hold for this week, most likely. Friday,
I'm going to be back in office.
But just,
and on Monday I will be in the train most
likely. But just as a background,
why I will not be 100% there,
this is why Matthias will be basically
the point of contact next week for this
whole resilience topic. And yeah.
As a background.
Cem.
Meaning, we have.
Address one card in this half an hour.
What about the other three?
I would continue, to be honest. Yeah,
I've already set the timer to add another,
but basically we probably need to keep it
in this time box. Yeah, I think.
So the most complicated, yeah,
this is simpler. This here is new. Yeah,
yes, it's.
Can you zoom a bit, because yeah,
sorry for that. Yeah, well,
I go into them anyway. So, next,
CDC error flow, also a known topic. Sorry,
yeah, to wrap up transactional behavior,
yeah.
What are the assumptions?
Because now it's easier to just talk
about them. What are the assumptions?
What are the limitations?
What information are we missing?
Basically,
if you can sum up this half an hour.
Without facilitator? Without facilitator?
Just joking.
I think we've wrapped it up already.
We need to create a min e-mail viable
solution that is not the full-blown
outbox pattern,
but covers the underlying requirements to
make a resolving of such failed.
attempts work in a manual way,
therefore making sure we don't build
something that we throw away later.
This logic,
this work that needs to be done now has
to be done anyway.
And we extended the scope to having it
resolved by a support team.
compared to the user running several
retries manually.
But will the user be able to retry
something?
That's up for us to define in the
solution we propose and develop next week.
Okay. I agree with Joseph.
We need to go down deep in the machine
room for every connexion or sequence we
have with TMS and cheque each row
separately and make a concept out of it.
All right.
Then we can describe the full flow.
Pascal, then let's continue.
Good CDC question. No,
when I was thinking about this fading
scenarios, like the most common reason.
For failure would be that our new
database would not be available, right?
It should be the most,
the most common situation. One second,
I'll try to get Ivano, because I think,
OK, if he's needed, sure,
I saw him that went either in our room,
yeah, downstairs, and OK,
because if we need him today,
then it's now.
Right, so, yeah, yeah,
later it's no longer real architecture,
which.
Well, if I go out, I can't get back in,
right? No, no, you can't.
You cannot use the elevator.
That's the only thing. Yeah.
OK, 5 minute break. Sure. Yeah,
some fresh air.
Of just finished. Ash is correcting you.
I'm just. Then we fight it in.
Speak that out. Yes.
Can you mute? Yes, over there on my phone,
just mute.
Did you?
You can.
Why do we want to?
Why do we want to leave?
Because now it is all going over this
beautiful machine. The big machine.
All right. We going to make.
A little.
Joe, your,
I suggested that I just briefly mention
what I wanted to tell and just go back.
Yeah, anybody will hear again. OK, then.
So what I was telling that most of the
cases where something will fail will be,
for example,
a new display database outage.
I think there is something that we can
fairly easily implement and just actually
remove most of these scenarios.
It's actually the this.
Saga pattern, for example, for example,
let's say that TMS operation succeeds and
our save to our new dispo database fails,
we can immediately try to do the opposite
action on the TMS bridge,
and this will be actually fairly easy.
Easily implemented,
because we have only three or four where,
like,
TMS and database needs to be synchronized.
We can implement this even in a day,
so just, just when this happens,
just try to, let's say,
we created a task order or something like
that, just,
just immediately try to delete it.
And that was my suggestion as an
improvement that we can still have the
some kind of a simpler fall,
but if we add this,
I think it will we will benefit a lot
from this.
All perfectly fine to discuss.
Matt.
But, like, this is more of an addition,
right? This is more of an addition, yeah,
because we still need to log those stuff
and we still need to probably try. Well,
if the opposite operation succeeded, yeah,
I mean, we don't have this synchronized.
We delete the record from the table,
right? Yeah,
and you just return an error response to
the user.
We, and we are all good, we don't have,
we started that discussion last week as
well, so let's,
but it's a really good thing to hear,
but it's like, so yeah, we can, yeah,
let's.
Good. All right, back to you. Back to me.
All right.
During my last minute adjustments,
I going to be...
Bearing from here.
Again.
All right.
No.
Shh.
All right, uh...
Okay.
Sorry,
and now everything should be in English.
All right,
now let's come back to basically this
thing I have started introducing to you
yesterday.
Be sharing this as well.
All right, so...
Yeah. So basically, we have discussed,
right,
what is the general approach to this
topic? We have an RV shipment type T,
which is just the announcement of a
shipment, which would be coming in.
And then we have the shipment type.
A, which is a preliminary,
and then after some status switch in the
database, it's a final shipment.
So this is the general concept. Early,
early stage, very rough.
It's a T shipment just announcing, hey,
you have to pick up some stuff.
Then at some other stage, the
The client is saying, okay,
now our planning is better.
We're sending you the real shipment,
shipment type A.
And this is preliminary, it will grow,
and it would then some status change on
the database.
We will dive deeper into that later.
It will become final and will not change
anymore.
This is the general concept.
On database level, this means we have...
One or more shipments we have to juggle
and see, all right, what is what?
What is at what stage? Is it planned?
Is it not planned?
Is it what happens if we remove it?
All of this kind of behavior, how do we
continue to keep the information of this
other shipments or this and how to
basically handle those one or more
shipments,
which are basically one physical shipment.
Question, like,
do it because you mentioned that, like,
first only being given bin shipment,
which is like the block, right,
which is the initial, yeah,
the initial plan, yeah, yeah, so, like,
my question is,
do we know they have always on a
corresponding case shipment?
No, created for a shipment. No, no,
not certain. OK,
sometimes the T is the one they work with.
I see.
So, there should be always a if it's a,
no, no, there can also be just ace,
come on,
it's I know you know the customer for now,
but in the beginning,
does it always start with the not always
just straight ahead to it? So, basically,
you know exactly what that is, yeah,
as far as I understood.
They're not sending an announcement,
they're just sending, hey,
this is the real one and it's already
qualities and it's very high or a little
bit less or it's the very rough one.
But when we talk about conceptually that
and talking about announcements.
It's very hard for me to imagine one a
shipment having multiple announcements.
I will explain it to you with a physical
way. All right, let's with bananas.
Actually,
it would be quite straightforward. So,
all right, let's say.
We have the whole fruit basket.
Should I start video?
Are you going to juggle? All right,
so let's say all of these are basically
the same fruit, right? Yeah,
let's make it a little bit more.
So this is announcement one,
this is announcement two,
and this is announcement one.
Three, yes.
It's about the quantity,
not about the type of fruit.
So that's quantity, not quality, not type.
It's about the quantity.
And announcement is.
T.T.T. Announcement is T.
So basically they have announced 5, two,
and three.
At some point.
It's just,
there's a message in an EDI message
coming in.
They have in this interface and they just
see, hey, all right,
this is what we want you to pick up.
But now the production starts.
The production is something else and
they're just like, all right,
actually we can provide all of these six.
In one shipment,
then you can pick up this and all of
these.
In another shipment.
At another stage,
because we cannot produce as much.
We cannot produce as much in the timeline
we have provided,
but this is what we can be sure.
This can be done by, let's say,
12 o'clock. This can be done by 4 o'clock.
All right,
so because we have the other way around
of many to many relationship,
what happens when like we have the same
apple part of 1A shipment and...
Let's say this Apple part of this age
shipment,
but in the same time we have another age
shipment that from here and it's also...
Right now, right now, this is 1A.
This is 1A. Okay.
One 2T, 1-2 T. So for one shipment,
we have many T's.
And the other way around, for one T,
we have multiple A's. Yeah,
that's exactly the second part is my
question. So,
but this is the case right now.
You have it visible. No, no,
because right now this T is part of this
A shipment. Yeah.
But what you said with the many, the many,
this is one, this is one, this is 1T.
This was announced as one.
So they said, all right, you pick up this,
you pick up this, you pick up this, 3Ts,
3Ts.
And now production is just not as
expected that this is,
that you can do this together.
They don't want you to just pick up this
one. So they just say, all right,
This is what we can do until 12.
And this is what we can do until four. So,
question,
what happens if in the this team there's
a third devo coming in the picture?
Apple coming in the picture in T2 let's
say what if like we have already
separated them into ways and they say we
don't separate them. It is just how the,
this is not about the data,
this is about the physical version,
why this can be happening.
and they're linked against more and you
have this going back and forth,
back and forth too many,
because this one could be part of a
different shipment as well. Yeah,
but physically they can produce more and
they would want to the more produced
apples in that case to be picked, right?
So in this case,
we have one T linked to two A's, right?
But the amount of T would not increase.
It's just the announcement that,
for example, it's just the amount of, hey,
this will be two. And if in the end,
so like I said, this is one.
This is 1. So we expect Ts do not change.
This is really important. So the T,
they do not change. And if they change,
they just disappear. We don't care.
Like in the end, what is important.
The A's, so this bundle, but yeah, I get,
but like, it's really important,
you keys don't change the amount for key
doesn't change. No, the, the, they,
it doesn't change.
This is extremely important topic,
because we initially thought that the
keys could change as well. No, no,
they don't change. So,
if you announce 2 appos,
if I want a third appo,
I need to make a new announcement.
Is this correct?
Yes, it will be just, and you get this.
This is the third level.
Yeah, OK. Yeah,
it will just it will be a new
announcement. OK, really important,
because that way we know that these are
constant and we view them as a static
object. We don't to them.
This is the first thing we're going to be
writing down. I'll just.
Well, it's really important to talk, yeah,
because I, I, like I got confused,
like when we discussed,
I think it was last week, because,
because no, this week,
because I thought the keys could change
as well, if they don't change,
this is probably a way for us to to.
It reduces like the complexity, yeah.
So the A, the A shipment can grow.
So it becomes bigger and bigger and
bigger. Because it starts with, hey,
this is a shipment now.
We actually had a perfect example of how
T&A shipments are split up and just.
With the kids, yeah, but basically.
I think I think as if someone is just
saying, all right,
now we're actually doing this a shipment.
We want to send the real,
this real thing they're going to be
picking up. And in the beginning,
it's empty because nothing,
they have a scanner and they go to one of
the produced goods and scan it and then
assign it to the shipment in their own.
system. And then it becomes bigger,
then this change gets reflected to us
because this banana package is added to
this A shipment now.
And we don't know if this apple is added
to it as well or not, or if even more.
Because if this is the case,
this would match exactly the T shipment.
As it is announced, and this could be it,
could be the one-to-one relationship.
exactly as it is.
But it could be even one banana more,
like not from anywhere else,
but just the amount of the produced
bananas would be more,
but it could even be less.
We don't know this, and we,
from a data perspective, don't care.
We just...
track the changes of the shipment because
the A shipment will grow and at some
point it will not change anymore.
And I think because we are data-driven.
We have this status.
Stage is 8.
So if this state is 8, is an S.
It is still growing. If it's now,
it's not growing anymore.
Don't ask me why status A,
don't ask me what S means.
It's just if it's S, it's still growing.
If it's null, it is not growing anymore.
Thiesing.
Makes sense, right? Yeah, decrease then,
or it can, let's say it can be modified,
be modified, change.
Let's not make it grow. Good question,
but I would say it can change. First node,
then growing, then again node,
because the first one is the T.
Don't like we just added and wanted to
know what we need to expect for the
status 8. We don't care for status 8,
but this would prove our point,
our assumption that they are static,
because then here, if it's null,
it doesn't change anymore.
So here we would expect it's not changing
as well.
OK,
so everything we discussed about the
these shipments, for example,
changing the consigner consignee or
whatever, this is not happening,
like these shipments are not changed, no,
in any in any field or form.
This is another assumption.
I cannot 100% say yes,
but this is what the general concept
should not change where it's going or
something.
This will also alleviate this request
issue that we were discussing.
when we need to propagate the CDC changes
from A shipment to T shipment.
This would also mean that if A shipment
changes, for example, consigning,
consignee or whatever field,
we don't propagate this change to the T
shipment.
Because, if we do...
Then this really means that the shipment
changing, and you have this.
Yes,
this is probably a very important
question. And also, if this is correct,
what you're saying is correct,
that means that we need to only track
creation or deletion of the shipments,
not changes, and also propagate changes.
But in the same time,
it will be very weird if a shipment,
for example, changes this designer or...
Origin or destination and the tea
shipment.
Just doesn't change.
Can you, Matthias,
write those assumptions we are writing
now down?
Because those will be the questions we
have to clarify with Joachim.
Where do I put this?
wherever you keep track of the questions.
I mean,
you can put it in the assumptions backlog
underneath in the other board, which is.
Of this one.
I'm there. Yeah, down here. Oops.
Goods.
So, um...
It's about the static nature of T here.
Maybe also the example where we receive a
CDC event for a a shipment change and
where we propagate this change to the T
shipment linked to it.
We just care for it's created and it's
deleted. But it's the assumption, right?
Yeah, that's why.
And it's the assumption for now.
And if we have to,
if this is not confirmed,
we have to think of what needs to happen.
But for now, we're just considering this.
And let's say that there's a deletion of
an A shipment and we delay the T shipment
in this case, right?
A deletion of the A shipment? Yes,
does it mean the deletion of the shipment?
We are not gonna be making any cascading
of this, right? Yes,
we also keep the same. If you know,
if you think about it,
like if I delete the actual shipment,
it doesn't change that I want you to
transport those stuff.
But good question if we need to have a
delete cascade. Because we,
the question will be if we delete,
what will be done to whatever entity we
have created in our database of the T
legs, for example.
if we just ignore them for now or if we
delete it, whether we delete them.
And also about, I guess,
the T shipment in TMS in that case is not
deleted.
We don't know. Like, I don't know this.
The general question is, do we reflect,
like,
should we reflect any changes which you
got over A-ship points to T-ship points?
This is the general question that we need
to address. And if yes, how,
in what manner, what are the rules?
Any changes?
Mhm.
All right.
And since we assume the T records are
static.
It's not the other way around.
So basically delete cascades. Yeah.
And also,
just you can write down the assumption in
that case that we don't track the
shipment changes through our CDC.
The long track creation of deletion.
Because you might end up in the case that
you have a tissue point and not the age
point.
I guess updates then,
but we have the other, I mean,
not sure about the other way around.
You don't track the updates for sure,
if that's the case. I mean,
CDC tracks all types, first of all,
and we only filter. Yeah,
but like for the for the T,
so we should reflect or create or delete.
The assumption is correct that they are
static here,
that we don't care about updates.
So, when you say delete cascade,
you mean should you just follow the
deletion, for example,
and also say that a shipment is deleted,
the new dispo does that deletes,
not a new dispo on TMS.
Should it be deleted and then,
but I I would not say like...
From my understanding is we don't care
about this business logic of what happens
in the back. The question is rather,
if we need to roll back,
what happens to the T? Yeah,
we need to start the organisation again.
Yeah, what happens to the T? Yeah.
It's.
Yeah.
And you could spin up a matrix for that
with all potential. So again, I mean,
yeah, this is, but we need to, basically,
for us,
it's important to ask those questions to
raise those open, unclear areas, because
If this is not working,
if this is not clear,
and we know they always have a special
treatment of some cases,
and sometimes it's hidden,
sometimes it's obvious,
and if it's not working, we need to show,
hey,
we raised this and we receive this answer.
Clear or not clear?
Yeah.
All right.
Well, it's a good time to go, go chart,
OK? Yes, like I said.
Like I said, alright, so can you solve it?
Yeah.
And...
11. Yeah, so as I said last time,
we start with the event.
So basically the T.
Okay.
English, Sonja.
The shipment is...
Not it.
So, the tea shipment,
we just treat them normally.
We don't need to cheque whether, like,
we assume that there is nothing. Oh,
this is a new case. Because for now, we,
our assumption was
T is always coming before A.
And T is not coming with basically a
reference already covered to it.
And this is the general assumption we
have to raise as well. T,
if the T comes in,
it is clean and there's nothing linked to
it.
But it may be otherwise as well.
that it is already linked to an existing
A shipment and just like, okay,
but this would not make sense in a
logical way.
You know what I mean?
Like if they already have the final stage
of something or the actual planning stage,
why would they send an announcement of
new stuff which is linked then to the...
Yeah.
Okay, anyhow,
so this is the assumption T shipment is
already in the system.
We treat it as the A shipments.
We have them already in the system,
so they're just there and easy.
Now an A shipment is important, imported.
First question is if it
Is it referenced? If it is referenced,
as yesterday described, we look,
all right,
which Ts are connected to this A shipment,
because we have to talk in plural,
which T shipments are connected to this A
shipment. All right, now we have to check,
are those T shipments planned or not?
If all of them...
Not planned.
All of them are not planned, we asked him,
we ignore the tea tea legs.
And we create Alex and the Alex can now
be planned.
And basically this all happens in the
unplanned state.
And whether we remove them, delete them,
whatever, this is our choice,
because it's our database.
But we ignore the fact that the tea
shipment is there.
if all of them are unplanned.
and as a direct replacement.
There are some more things to it.
Basically,
we need the information of this G
shipment,
basically what was announced in something
like this,
but this is not covered for now.
This is basically now just a hierarchy,
how we deal with what.
This is the easiest case.
Let's continue with at least one of them
is plant.
If at least one of them is planned,
we have, yeah,
basically we want to as well,
the easiest part is all of them are
planned,
all of them are on the same transport
order. Let's just assume this,
either one or all of them are on the same
transport order.
and we simply can replace them.
So we remove all the T shipments from the
from the transport order and add the A
shipment to this transport order.
So it's simple switch route. Yes,
this is an operation which like.
The question, TMS,
is this something automatically done TMS,
or we should fire those variations to TMS?
This is a good question again.
Assumption here is we handle this because
on Monday Patrick is going to be talking
about
This question, yeah. But for now,
we assume we handle this.
We take care of this switching up things.
So we remove the T from the transport
order or all the Ts from the transport
order and put the A on the transport.
Can you mark this because right now...
When I see this,
the new dispo removing TLX,
I would imagine that this happens only in
new dispo.
Yeah, this is why it like this here.
Yeah, what do you mean?
This is why we marked it in red,
but this is just happening on a new disco.
We fire the operation to TMS. Yeah,
but also you need to fire operations to
TMS, right?
That's another thing we should be doing
right.
I would say you just put triggers for
moving of legs.
That means that TMS is involved as well.
Is that Boyan? I mean, yeah,
but it doesn't proactively do it on its
own TMS. True, the question is,
whether they do it, I mean, if they here,
if they can already plan.
Robo, whatever it is,
this new functionality for them,
it's most likely they don't know. Is it?
Is it? Yes,
it's entirely still exists a new console.
They know new,
this is something they had troubles
having this in TMS, the announcements,
and I'm not sure if they have it or not.
Currently,
I have found some tea shipments in the
database.
So I would assume we are taking care of
this handling process. Again,
we have to work with assumption because
as always,
there's a lot of unknowns from the client
side.
What does it mean on our side?
We get the information of the new
shipment, we see it's referenced,
we cheque for the referenced T-shipments,
are you planned or not? And here,
what we're dealing with is the automated
approach, what is expected, everything.
So either one, which is...
All of them,
or all of them meaning more than one,
are all on the same transport order.
This is the important part.
They're all on the same transport order.
Then we manually move, not manually,
but we handle this removing the T-legs
from the transport order.
and adding this A leg to the transport
order.
I just wonder if the TMS leg ID also
changes and our IDs change.
It's a set of two new IDs.
Or does the TMS lag ID stay?
Should only we TMS a new lag ID?
TMS creates the installing when you
assign them. Yeah,
so if you take care of the operation,
you would like it to generate a new lag
entity to the database.
Because they don't keep track of, like,
they don't create legs when we create
them, because for us,
leg is an unplanned stage of the shipment,
but they create legs only,
as far as we know, at least,
they create legs only when they hit on
trigger, yeah,
so if the A is not already planned,
that means that if we take care of this,
it will create a leg for the shipment
once we...
Assigned.
Also, Max,
can we use the word when assigning rather
than removing? Yeah, sure.
Which is way more clear.
It's also what Joachim prefers. Yeah,
removing like I assume. Yeah, it's yeah.
Just below the zero, yeah,
this is the question: whether we remove
them, like literally,
or if we remove them literally,
I'm not sure what happens with other
shipments linked to to this team,
it would also keep them,
and you also want to show, like,
even if we have an issue,
you want to show in bracket, like,
what other...
Bumped.
All right.
But here, Max,
what was my question yesterday?
The original T value,
is it part of the A shipment?
Or do we need to keep the T shipment that
is referenced to the A shipment to show
the value in brackets?
Um...
The T value is not inside,
so when we're talking about shipments,
the entity which is coming from TMS,
they don't have the,
this is what the current problem is and
the need is,
they are losing track of the information
of the T shipment. So what was announced?
They don't know,
because basically what happens is they
just see a 0 now.
So then we need to keep it. Yes,
that's the main feature that you just.
And the question is, how do we keep it?
If we just keep the leg with the
information,
or we add this information to our ALEC?
But this is...
One question, like,
when we unassign this this T-Lex,
and like this T-Lex can no longer be
bumped,
what happens to to the rest of the A-Lex
that are linked to this T-Lex and like
showing the values in the brackets?
Do we do we update this as well?
Yeah.
When we remove,
when we unassign the V legs and they can
no longer be planned,
if we have other A legs that are linked
to this unassigned V legs that can no
longer be planned,
what happens with the values for the VSP?
Because each A leg is showing in brackets.
The the VSP value for the TLX, right?
This is like what we're gonna be showing
is a new topic like this.
Let's please get it out because...
This is a big question for me as well.
I am asking this right now to get this
exact answer.
Do we want to split it or is it just
aggregated simply, let's say,
one A shipment is having multiple T
shipments. Do we simply aggregate? If yes,
all right.
But if this T shipment is already is
referenced to another A shipment,
do we want to split it somehow?
If I remember correctly, no.
We just add this in brackets.
This is a bigger entity.
I'm not sure if we talk about the same
thing, maybe,
but really this is about the process
where it's a T Lake is no longer planned.
Let's go here. Like, will they be like...
Scaling, I'm fine. No,
it's rather let's say that we have two,
we have two A shipments. They both,
they are both.
These are two A shipments here.
One 818 and they they both they both like
a reference to a.
Telec link to a T. shipment to two T.
shipments, yeah, so we so we unassigned,
like in the process of unassignment,
we unassigned the T. Leicht in T.
shipment.
Understand, yeah.
Which one? The cheque mark. Well,
the cheque mark is, yeah.
This one or above? Doesn't matter,
to be honest.
I think we burned the upper flow right
now. Well, the other, it's not,
it's different because here we are
planned, here we have nothing planned.
We also say that T-legs can no longer be
planned. These are, this is.
Physically, it's one T. Leicht, right?
Yes, what does it mean?
Can no longer be planned?
What happens here, like...
What happens here? I mean,
this is basically one thing.
But this is basically you're entering a
conflict area already. Basically,
you have two A shipments and they are
both planned,
or basically 2T shipments and they are
already planned.
Let's assume this tea shipment is already
planned and this tea shipment is already
planned. Nevertheless,
if they are on this,
basically this is the difficulty because
between the physical and the digital
representation of this problem.
This is just an announcement,
and the physical world can be different
than what was announced.
Yeah,
this means that we need more granular
level, because, yeah, because we are,
on the one hand,
we talk about separate concerns,
splitting and treating this as separate,
but on the other hand,
they actually represent one physical.
that we don't have this granularity. We,
on one hand,
we are talking about something granular,
but on the other hand,
not really granular in it.
Basically, just one thing. In the end,
it could be, like I said,
when it would be like this.
that what is written here in the bracket,
it's not 5, 6, because this is 5, 5 and 1,
this would be 6, but it could be 7,
because it is reference to this
T-shipment. And the same here, it's not 4,
but in brackets, it's 5.
Because reference to the both of them T.
shipments, this could be the solution. No,
that let me go to the scenario when we
are planning, when we are planning.
This one, this, this, this,
this shipment is no longer be, yeah,
being planned,
then what happens with the values here
for this shipment,
because it can no longer T.T.T. the T.
shipment can no longer be planned,
so this is a, like I said, this, you,
you're entering not.
automated, what we're not taking care of.
So let's assume we have the situation,
we have one shipment A,
Two shipments, team.
So, basically, this, so this would be...
One shipment.
Yeah.
This is planned to 1 transport order,
and this is planned to another transport
order. But there's still one shipment.
The reference from this one shipment is
saying, hey, this is 1. Now,
the consignor can say, all right,
I just replace this T.
with the whole thing and just ignore this
and this stays on the transport order.
And that's it. All he says, all right,
the T shipment,
this T shipment now just represents this
A shipment. So it's replacing this one.
So basically,
you have two transport orders.
On each is a T,
and you can decide which is just like,
Swatch, switching it before the other,
it's removed.
No, the other one stays.
That's what the consigner,
not the consigner,
the dispatcher can decide.
There are some grey areas, for sure.
I mean, also, now I'm thinking,
for example, also in case, for example,
when they're on plant,
let's say we have the T on plant,
I'm receiving a new shipment, let's say,
with one, referencing T2 in this case,
right? Who will be here? I mean.
A shipment with one, right? So,
we create the shipment like this,
and we have like one physical shipment
already,
and one like it was planned as
referencing key two, right?
So, one-to-one relationship, yeah,
in this case, yeah, happened,
then we import a secondary shipment,
also referencing T2.
Yes, everything. OK, OK,
another shipment with one apple.
Physical, but not on a this one.
Watch it if I when we sign the legs,
if I remove the the the key, let's say OK,
no longer information that this TA
already exists.
It's we're not removing them.
I'm signing, I'm signing, I'm signing. OK,
but anyways, I mean, it means it's...
That's why we changed the wording.
We probably also question too much their
domain. It's given. Like we have some,
I mean, we can go step by step.
This is just the happy flow. Like I said,
this is just if all of them are planned
or if all of them are not unplanned.
And if it's something in between,
this is the easy scenario for us,
it's discussed,
we mark those shipments and transport
orders which are affected. Basically,
they get a red sticky on it and say, hey,
please resolve this issue.
And for this one scenario where
everything is planned,
But on different transport orders,
we give them the possibility to resolve
it manually.
That's it, but Max then,
in the flow chart,
maybe this team next planned,
like extended with all team next planned
on same.
Principle order.
All TV plans.
Lang.
Name to you.
Okay.
Right.
Well,
that's exactly the case you are
describing, right?
And all the other cases we just had will
come later in one of the other paths.
Yeah,
I think we also changed in the happy path,
we changed it to unassign.
With the green cheque mark,
but understanding is not possible when
it's not even planned, right? It's not,
yeah, it's ignore, basically. I mean,
exactly,
the question here is if we really delete
them or keep them and just hide them.
For sure, we can delete them. I think we,
in that case, which I showcase,
we need to keep them.
If a secondary shipment comes with the
same reference,
we need to know where it which is the key
which is referencing, yeah.
All right, so basic,
but this is just the important thing is,
there's going to be a lot of edge cases,
but the general concept should be,
is it referenced? Yes, no.
And are the legs of the referenced?
planned or not.
And if it's a clear yes or a clear no,
we can manage.
And if it's diverting from these
behaviors,
we go into conflict scenarios and have
special treatment, how to resolve them,
how we mark them, what can the user do,
what is he going to the support,
what information do they need to resolve
the issue? That's basically it.
But this is basically,
we have a reference in the beginning.
So in the moment we enter the,
get the A shipment, we have a reference,
and then either it's planned or not.
The reference item.
Now the little bit more difficult part
starts where the A shipment comes in and
it's not referenced.
So basically we treat it as a standalone,
right?
We treat it as a standalone A shipment.
Meaning exactly this thing.
We don't have an announcement or at least
we assume because we don't know.
It's A standalone announcement and
basically we have the A shipments,
the A legs created as we do right now.
So not a special treatment,
but now the fun part starts.
We iterate, and not iterate,
but this was basically my way of showing
it, until it is planned.
So this would be the way out of this loop.
We look whether we get a reference to an
existing
Tea ****.
So we wait, we wait, we wait,
and at one point we get the event, hey,
there's a reference.
And if the reference is created,
so this is basically the no loop,
we don't have a reference,
we don't have a reference, we look up,
we don't have a reference,
event comes in and we follow this path
and then it's referenced.
And now it follows this path and it
checks, hey,
is this reference T or the multiple are
the plant or not?
And then we follow this path up here.
Is this...?
The Alex take over. The Alex take over.
All we start with the replacing,
and or how we...
deal with the T-Lex.
And this is the part where the A is still
unplanned.
Right.
No.
We enter this area,
whether we plan the ALX, and we don't,
you have two arrows with yes,
they happen concurrently, or where, where,
where I have two yes.
When these are the TV reference added, OK,
so go back, then you go back to the loop,
right? I mean, from there.
You enter in here,
and then you follow the process.
And how do you get?
Over this path here, so basically...
If this question is yes,
so you plan the A shipments?
if they are planned and we still have no
reference.
Then we move over in here.
So now it's planned and basically we have
this loop and just like this could,
I mean,
we could even have like a way out of just
like this stops now.
No more. Not the correct symbol,
but you know what I mean. Basically,
this could be the way out. This is done.
The shipment is planned.
We never see a T shipment for this A
shipment.
independent.
It is just standalone as we do it right
now.
This would be the flow of what we are
doing right now. Yeah.
except for the checking if there's a
reference.
But basically we plan it and then at one
point it is,
they ship it and then it's all good.
Do you scroll a bit on the left? Sorry.
Play Al Netflix.
Uh...
In this,
this is actually the CDC for right? Yeah,
as well. I mean, I mean, new,
new display like creation.
Can you throw a bit more to the left,
I guess?
So, we...
Create have the a shipment important.
We notice the a shipment is a new
shipment coming in, no reference.
To T.
To any T, so we just create the ALX,
no handling of any other T.
Now we plan it.
So, how, how ticket they got just created,
but they they are planned?
We have some swim lanes around which
application is this, like,
was just created, right? How did,
how did you plan the microservices?
Why could it not be the mentioning CDC
flow? So, so basically,
just this is just like some bad.
It is waiting for user input and this
diamond is just asking,
is this that now or not? It's not,
it's not one stuff we do without any
input.
It's just like how the flow of a shipment
could be through the system. And it's,
there are user inputs in between because
basically here. I get the point.
Because here something happens as well,
so the reference is added from someone in
the system. Does it make sense? So,
the shipment comes in, we track it,
and then it could go for a week,
nothing happens,
and it's still inside this flow.
Complex law, so it's stuck in, yes, but,
but when you,
I had a general question: Is this one
week? It's just one discussion, please.
Yeah, I had a question here, like,
is this all is all this complexity
implied by the business?
domain,
like potentially some business related
processes that imply the status
transitions, etc, referencing, grouping,
and so on. Or it's more of a, let's say,
the software that would ultimately
provide some capability around planning,
etc.
Is it,
does it straightly come from business
processes?
Is it how they currently use the business
processes or we like invent these
processes around software?
This is the business flow of what happens
and this is just showcasing what happens
to a shipment.
and this all of these things can happen
and this is why I'm building in these
loops.
But is it the way they used to like do it
or are there some restrictions that come
from the domain or because it's for me it
looks overly complicated. Yeah.
And I'm wondering.
Is it really necessary to all this
complexity or are they used to that
complexity? So,
let me regulatory like related or just
some business interaction related
requirements that mandate.
to build this complexity and input the
software.
I can answer a few of those questions.
So those loops which are in there.
Usually, or let's start earlier. Usually,
if there's a T shipment and if there's an
A shipment, they are a reference,
there's a reference.
They just know, okay,
this announcement from earlier is linked
to this A shipment.
But it could be that there's just some
mistakes, something is missing,
they just forgot.
Simple as this. And for this,
we need an answer if they manually add
this reference later. This is why.
So this is just an edge case,
what we're looking for.
If it's added later, we need to know,
okay, we now see it. And in what stage of
Our planning, is this coming in?
Is it before the planning of the shipment
or afterwards?
And if it's before,
we just directly go back to this business
flow up here. What we can do,
this is just showcasing what we should be
doing, not how.
What should happen, roughly?
And down here,
this is before the planned stage.
So this all going down here is before the
dispatcher planned this shipment.
And after this diamond, it is,
we get the information here,
we get the information that this,
that this
Getting a little conscious myself with
the words,
because it's so simple and so similar.
Here, the planning happens.
And if it's planned,
it could still be referenced after,
because we can plan or assign a shipment
and unassign it later.
But here, now the reference is added here.
Now we have to do what we are doing up
here,
cheque whether they are planned or not.
I think why is this complex is because it
mixes 2 triggers in one diagram. I mean,
one trigger is the shipment entity and
the other is the relationship entity.
No, it's two flows.
If I understand correctly,
we start with the shipment being imported,
shipment being created, essentially.
We go all the way to the planning,
this ALX plant,
but this could happen after a week, right?
Yeah,
this should not be part of this diagram.
Yeah, it should be a separate diagram.
Which is,
which is saying what happens when we want
a leg? OK, I'm not,
I'm not saying that my diagram is perfect,
like this, that's where the confusion. OK,
so all of this continued,
can we answer Yuval's question?
I think he has now answered his question.
This is in the existing application
already. OK.
So, maybe building on what is there,
just the layer layer over the correct
object that is actually in the database.
So, I cannot simply process all together,
or or there is no,
that's a very nice idea,
but they live this that complex.
They think like that, they work like that.
And it is developed like 20,
during 20 years,
they actually adding all this stuff.
Correct.
We discussed this earlier with the fruits
here.
There's announcement shipments where the
client announces what plans to be picked
up.
And it could become a real shipment later
on, but it must not be.
It can be a valid contract between them
to keep it as an announcement. Like, it's.
..
Like when you make a deal,
you just talk about what needs to be,
but you never sign the contract. For me,
that's how it feels like.
But they also sometimes sign a contract
without having talked about what is
really the contact of contract on the
content of the deal.
That's how I see it,
and why do we do we even have those
announcements and not wait for the final
shipments?
Because it gives us more time to start
the planning process and to optimise and
basically plan our Loris better, yeah,
and...
Basically, what I have started with,
that we have to make some filtering to
what kind of clients we want to even have
have access to this pickup planning page,
not access, but their data goes in here.
The reason is that we can say those
clients give us good input data.
The announcements are a little off,
so we can actually use them as valid
planning ground.
Can I ask a question? Like, yes,
from business point of view,
like say I have a A. Leicht plant.
Yes.
What is the business idea behind adding?
reference with a T leg which is already
one to an A leg which is already one.
Isn't this like a conflict?
Let me directly jump in here.
Should we allow this? Yes. Why? Because.
You have your screen and we simply see
two shipments now, A&T.
And just someone forgot to link them.
We don't know if the first one is an A,
we don't know if the second one is a T.
Well, actually,
we don't care because we just want to
plan them.
It's complex because they could be
assigned in different transport. Yes,
agreed. But for now, we just say,
all right, in the unplanned stage,
We want to see both of them, right?
I allow this in 1st place.
Why not follow them to understand the
issue from first and then link it?
and assign it to get it.
Let's assume they're both unplanned. Yeah,
no,
but I'm asking for the keys because it
would make the diagram way simpler.
If it's in the planned stage,
so you want to force them to,
if they make the assignment,
to force all the planned T shipments to
be unassigned? No,
if I want to link the A shipment to an
already bought T shipment.
I should be on a sign like, probably,
I mean,
I don't know what which one could be
probably here,
it depends what the process is,
but like it does not make sense to
reference 2 already planned shipments
together if they're planned to different
transport problems,
because how do we resolve it?
And this is basically where we do like a
big conflict, so...
What is here? What is the stage here?
Stage here would be the T leg is planned,
the A leg is planned,
and they're just somewhere on different
transport orders. Yeah,
but why end up in a conflict situation?
Why not prevent the conflict in earlier
stage?
This is just something for right now we
agreed to not deal with.
And just say this is a problem that this
might occur.
How would you need to show it somehow?
Yes, but if this is happening,
we have to basically make a sticky on the
transport order and say this is a
contract.
I mean,
it's the relationship record comes after
T&
A had been planned individually by
dispatchers.
The relationship just comes too late.
For it to be resolved automatically,
but why not to restrict this? I mean...
That's the you cannot restrict the how
they work.
You cannot restrict the planning process
because the assumption is.
Both are not linked,
because how would you know?
It's just not linked.
and your mind the and the and linking
them needs to happen to actually know,
hey, we there is something wrong here.
We have planned the same physical apple
here on 2 shipments and it's just one
apple.
And we book this place for the apple in
the one lorry,
and we book this one place of this of
this the announced apple,
the physical apple is planted to this one
lorry,
and the virtual apple is planted to this
other lorry. And
Now, we announce it to the,
stop announcing,
we communicate this apple twice in the
worst case to the client and they're like,
you told us to pick it up here and you
told us to pick it up here. It's the same.
And this is why we need this link to at
least tell the dispatcher, hey,
you cannot communicate this because there
are some conflicts here.
I get why you want to resolve the logical
issue on their end in the domain,
but that's a completely different
consulting project, right? No,
that's not the new dispute development
stream, I think, in my opinion. Okay,
I mean,
our service is also sponsoring kind of a..
.
Business post office theory.
Someone should also take a look because
these guys are probably so used to that
old software that they've been patching
over the years that they ended up with
some inefficient processes altogether.
Yeah, they have these goals.
They want to get rid of a lot of old
terminology.
And so on. They have these plans,
but probably not deep enough and not
across the whole end-to-end process.
So there is potential. And on top.
They have high need to get this running.
and they don't care for a clean process.
They just want to have this running.
And this is the highest value they can
give, and for us as well,
because then we provide value to them.
And they say they're just pushing this
back. I mean,
this is something I agree with you.
We need to tackle and say,
this is ******** what you're doing.
It's just like always pushing the fixing
part in the back because it works.
But right now, if we continue to say, no,
we cannot do this,
we will never have like a heavy stage
where we have a success and this works
and now we provide value to the client
and this app is actually providing value
to the customer.
What's the nature of the urgency because
of, let's say,
all software that they cannot maintain or?
I think a lot of pain in investing into
the software for five years.
How many years?
A lot of projects tried to do this and
they failed.
They burned a lot of money on this and
now we as P3
came in as an external software provider
or like
We provide the solution and we take even
longer than they expect and their budget,
but now they need some money streaming in
or some cost efficiency,
balancing out all their investments.
It's like family return without the
investment. Yes. You cannot.
I get your point: in a theoretically
perfect world, this would be the approach,
but the client is no longer ready for
this.
They have too many failed tests.
There's basically a lot of people sitting
on a hot chair. If this works,
the chair is cooling down.
If this is not deployed or like working
at some point or it's not accepted,
and this, like I want to say,
This is not our problem.
But for us, we need to deliver a solution,
and what will be the return of the
investment altogether if they, let's say,
make this new application that works the
old way? I mean,
it doesn't work the old way;
it's not just the old way,
this is what they don't have yet. Yeah,
maybe it's the same level of the purpose.
No, we...
Replace a manual process of calling
people, calling to emails and be like,
"Hey,
I have 5 apples you announced earlier.
Can we pick them up? Oh, it's four. Oh,
really? Oh, no,
now there's three more apples linked to
this. All right,
we're just going to send a truck. Oh,
it's just halfway used."
It's solving a real world problem.
So basically the issue we're having is
just like sending by guessing trucks
there and hoping it's enough or not too
little or not too much or too early to
send it.
And there's further potential lying on
the street.
for example,
to optimise exactly what he just said,
the empty drives the truck has.
Because this is, I mean,
we're talking about the logistics
environment and the logistics branch,
not branch, industry. Industry.
They're working with little margins.
And whenever they have, like...
10% left in their lorries,
it is hurting them.
And if they are driving with empty trucks,
it is draining the margin even more.
And I can imagine. So this is a big thing,
like a missing puzzle piece of an
automated and actually digital way of
planning this.
which we are delivering.
I'm not sure if you were all aware,
but this is the pickup process we are
planning,
and they did all over phone and emails.
Tax me everything, yeah, probably as well.
And this is why it is urgent for them to
have this at least replaced with or have
their old logic implanted in this new
software. But the thing is,
then the pressure is a little bit off.
The heat is just turning down and we can
continue working on this,
providing consultancy and saying, hey,
guys, we see you want more features,
more features, more features,
but we have the success now.
Let's make it more easy to fix, more,
less error prone.
All of this. OK, so let's go.
We propose our foot on the door and not
too close, and then yeah, last break.
Yeah, let me let me close out this,
then we after lunch we do a quick run
through the flow chart again.
To kind of address the questions that we
have now over the last half hour,
to just structure it again and say, okay,
this part is clear,
this part is maybe not clear, whatever.
But let's take some fresh air and okay.
I think we also reached a point where...
The verbal description of you is too big.
We need to dissect this diagram into
several diagrams so that we can move on.
getting into the details. Otherwise,
we end up in a confusion loop.
I think we need to describe all these
search cases with actual examples. Yes,
that's the same direction,
making it normal and precise.
This is to think this was a good intro,
but we need to go deeper.
And my question is,
Is this place here in this workshop or
next week,
or when are we going to do this?
Splitting up the scenarios and not
working on them would be in here, my idea,
or basically the separate steps, just say,
all right.
We need to take care of this,
just writing down the task,
not how we gonna manage,
and basically split it down and not do it
here, because this would, yes,
we don't have enough time for this for
you and would need tomorrow as well.
Maybe just write down the old age cases
and not actually visualize.
Just defining, yep, yeah, for sure,
we can't give even a test today,
just mentioning,
because there are like a lot of cases,
we can't, we can't. The thing is,
now this is what I wanted to add.
All the easy cases, basically,
all the T shipments to 1A shipment are on
one and we can easily exchange.
This needs to be automated.
When basically there's this mix between
A&T,
but everything is either way planned to
the same transport order,
we simply replace all the T's with all
the A's which are connected, simple.
And whenever it's really, really simple,
it's perfectly clear.
Then we automate this.
Whenever this is basically the user
stories now.
It is not clear.
We mark it and basically provide the user
a clear information, hey,
there's an issue with this shipment,
there's an issue with this lot because it
contains A conflicted shipment. We mark
Transport orders as conflict transport
orders because there's something you have
missed.
This is what we need to do. So the simple,
straightforward approaches we automate
and say, all right, we just replace.
Everything else,
we just visually mark and let them fix
their ********.
Yeah, but...
What I want to ask, like the second part,
I mean, about marking stuff,
and just let you know, yes,
just out of curiosity, let's say,
let's say they end up in the situation
where they have a conflict,
we have marked this,
we assume we have marked.
What does the dispatcher need to do in
order to resolve this conflict? So,
can I go?
They will need probably to unassign one
of the shipments, or just go and delete,
for example, some of the stuff, or,
or I mean,
how they will probably need to unassign
and just switch some stuff around. Why?
My question is,
and this is probably the question to the
process we have there,
why not practically preventing this
conflict?
and not allowing marking of A legs one
and T legs one to be referenced and not
telling them, okay,
you can't do this first,
you need to unassign one of the legs.
Maybe.
the other way around.
The referencing is happening not in TMS.
Somewhere else. It is somewhere else.
So not in our application.
Not in our application.
So the referencing is happening in OMS.
This referencing will be passed down to
TMS and when then we get a
event saying, hey, this is referenced,
and then we get the information and then
we can show the errors.
So we cannot prevent the referencing.
And we should not prevent the referencing
because basically,
let's assume someone is just getting the
information, oh, I should reference this.
And then there's just an application
saying, no,
someone else need to do something for you
before you can do this. This would be.
not beneficial for the whole thing and
just add in the little communication
issues that sometimes have.
Maybe we can make this a little step
backwards. Once we get this,
once we get this information of the
reference, we unassign something.
But this is something they don't want.
Okay,
then let me ask a little bit questions
like which are potential edge cases.
For example, like
For reference between both one objects
and T, so, for example,
what happens if one of the transport
orders will want to understand Alex from
this final or finalised already,
because they have this data already,
but then you cannot.
OK, well, how do we do this?
How do we prevent this?
There's always a possibility,
then they do it in the back,
then they hard-code it in the database or
hack it, yeah,
or they just throw they remove it,
and then it removes on our side, yeah,
yeah.
Yeah.
Because then we also have a case which we
can't handle, right?
We have a reference which you can't
handle and they can't do nothing about it,
because the transport is already
finalized, right? Yeah, but then that's,
but we are not handling the overall,
the overall clear delivery boundaries.
Otherwise,
we never finish concepts and we never
deliver small.
Inter iterations, this is basically like,
like you said.
Some things we provide the possibility to
resolve. Like I said,
one a shipment is coming in.
Two tea shipments are planned or multiple
are planned,
we can decide which one it is replacing.
The other ones remain, done.
What happens with those T shipments which
are on different transport orders is in
the, yeah, basically the...
The dispatcher can decide.
One question I'm coming up with right now
is if they are removing the T-shipments
from these other transport orders,
in my opinion,
they should disappear from New Disco.
They go into the loop again. They go,
yeah, but this is the loop we don't have.
Because we have not the stage where the A
shipment is there and then a T shipment
comes in.
So, from my assumption would be...
If T shipment is unassigned.
Is being...
Unassigned, it disappears.
From the...
Goodbye.
If an a shipment is from the UI or the
database.
She found so.
We basically what is the use case is,
I don't want to talk in solutions,
I want to talk in behaviors.
It should not be plannable anymore.
This is my assumption, what should happen.
I will clarify again,
but right now we have to work with
assumptions,
we write them down and either clarify
them or not.
Is there a confirmed rate?
Is there falsified? We have to say,
all right,
we have to do another refund round.
The shipment can not be apart from any
further action anyway, right? Yeah,
but then this is a decision.
They say either yes or no.
But I personally would keep data.
It's not of any value or data. I mean,
it's about unassigning it.
It's not about removing it. Yeah.
Okay, but for now, I think...
A cut,
and basically the message I want to send
you,
the clear and obvious things we take care
of, automated.
And whatever is whatever issues we find,
we say there's an issue.
And.
old tone,
I'm not sure if this is a word in English,
but original voice of Patrick was,
then the dispatcher has to take care of
it somehow if we cannot resolve it
through the app.
This, yeah,
to provide a way to mark the issue as
resolved,
when it actually gets resolved to remove
the conflict, good point.
Sorry for the interruption,
but we have to go because we have a
reservation. Yeah.
Martin.
Complete design.
Cortana, I would go think about that.